Content: Unfettered campaign Act 1 (#6416)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/hai/hai ships.txt

		"required crew" 59
		"bunks" 78
		"mass" 720
		"drag" 9.1
		"heat dissipation" .35
		"fuel capacity" 600
		"cargo space" 80
		"outfit space" 855
		"weapon capacity" 333
		"engine capacity" 140
		weapon
			"blast radius" 500
			"shield damage" 5500
			"hull damage" 3000
			"hit force" 3600
	outfits
		"Ionic Blaster Prototype" 4
		"Hai Tracker Pod" 4
		"Ionic Turret Prototype" 2
		"Chameleon Anti-Missile"
		"Boulder Reactor" 2
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 3
		"Hai Zephyr Cooling" 3
		"Hai Tracker" 224
		"Outfits Expansion"
		`"Bondir" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Quantum Keystone"
	engine -45 123
	engine 45 123
	gun -22 -103
	gun 22 -103
	gun -34.5 -68
	gun 34.5 -68
	gun -48 -53.5 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	gun 48 -53.5 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	gun -61.5 -23 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	gun 61.5 -23 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	turret 0 5 "Chameleon Anti-Missile"
	turret -55.5 74.5
	turret 55.5 74.5
	leak "leak" 35 45
	leak "flame" 60 95
	leak "big leak" 50 45
	explode "tiny explosion" 60
	explode "small explosion" 51
	explode "medium explosion" 54
	explode "large explosion" 53
	explode "huge explosion" 22
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

> 	description "This is a prototype created by the Unfettered. They have upgraded its shield matrix as well as pretty much everything else they could, but this process has sacrificed stability and increased heat generation."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	description "This is a prototype created by the Unfettered. They have upgraded its shield matrix as well as most other components of the ship, but this process has sacrificed stability and increased heat generation."
```

	turret "Pulse Turret"

ship "Modified Shield Beetle"
	sprite "ship/hai modified shield beetle"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/hai modified shield beetle"
	attributes
		category "Heavy Warship"
		"cost" 25400000
		"shields" 40000
		"hull" 10000
		"required crew" 59
		"bunks" 78

> 		"mass" 720
> 		"drag" 9.1
> 		"heat dissipation" .35

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"mass" 2060
		"drag" 16.9
		"heat dissipation" .19
```
Mass rebalance changes

	outfits
		"Ionic Blaster Prototype" 4
		"Hai Tracker Pod" 4
		"Tracker Storage Pod" 2
		"Ionic Turret Prototype" 2
		"Warder Anti-Missile"
		"Value Detector"
		"Hai Cuttlefish Jammer" 2
		"Boulder Reactor" 2
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 3
		"Hai Zephyr Cooling" 3
		"Hai Tracker" 252
		"Outfits Expansion" 4
		`"Bondir" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Quantum Keystone" 2
	engine -45 123
	engine 45 123
	gun -22 -103
	gun 22 -103
	gun -34.5 -68
	gun 34.5 -68
	gun -48 -53.5 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	gun 48 -53.5 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	gun -61.5 -23 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	gun 61.5 -23 "Hai Tracker Pod"
	turret 0 5 "Warder Anti-Missile"
	turret -55.5 74.5
	turret 55.5 74.5
	leak "leak" 35 45
	leak "flame" 60 95
	leak "big leak" 50 45
	explode "tiny explosion" 60
	explode "small explosion" 51
	explode "medium explosion" 54
	explode "large explosion" 53
	explode "huge explosion" 22
	"final explode" "final explosion large"
	description "This is a prototype created by the Unfettered. They have upgraded its shield matrix as well as most other components of the ship, but this process has sacrificed stability and increased heat generation."

> 

Author: it's only one space caus its a variant

> 

Reviewer 3: That makes sense.

> 

Reviewer 3: Resolve this.

# Si-Ra will use this modified beetle when provoked,
# he risked everything to upgrade his ship and to kill you so that he can get back into Midas

> ship "Modified Shield Beetle" "Si-Ra' angry Beetle"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ship "Modified Shield Beetle" "Si-Ra's angry Beetle"
```

Author: ~~even the ship names? And the comments too ig~~
Is nowhere safe? x)

		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Hyperdrive"

ship "Shield Beetle Prototype"
	sprite "ship/hai shield beetle prototype"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/hai shield beetle"
	attributes
		category "Heavy Warship"
		licenses
			"Unfettered Militia"
		"cost" 25400000

> 		"shields" 42000

Reviewer 4: This is a pretty absurd increase in shields, 10k, about a 31% increase.
Marauders of the human HWs only get about an 11% increase to their shields, when comparing to the non-marauder versions, so this is way beyond what we have so far for ships with the similar idea of revamping an existing ship type with more of some stats at the cost of others.
On that though, it doesn't seem like the extra stuff cost this ship much of anything really, it's lost some bunks and a tiny bit of cargo, the big hit being the much lowered heat dissipation, but it's getting stats like fuel capacity and weapon capacity for seemingly no reason.
The shields are what bothered me most when looking at this ship's stats, though, so a cut on what % of the Shield Beetle's shields is being added is what I reccomend. From 31% to somewhere like 20% maybe.

Author: this is a unique ship, it only exists once and is a prototype for you to wield, it almost has half of the heat dissipation of the other shield beetle

Reviewer 4: "It's one of a kind" is not a justification, if anything it's an excuse, I figured it would be sold as something like that, I still take issue with the shields.

Reviewer 5: I think a 25% increase in shields would be appropriate. The strong nerf to heat dissipation more than makes up for that, I think. The increased required crew and reduced bunks also helps balance it. 

While I haven't checked, probably the important thing is that this ship isn't available for sale. If it's a one-off ship given to the player, I'm good with the idea.

Author: it is doubly not available to the player : requires a license you cannot get yet, + it's not in any shipyards and will not ever be

> 		"shields" 42000

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
		"shields" 40600
```

TBF, even with the other changes, this still seems just a -tad- too sturdy.

I'm kind of thinking this should come earlier, as an explicitly defensively reinforced version (with only 36400 shields though, as still a large improvement over SB), and where you get this now should be a Solifuge version which is explicitly a prototype for the upcoming war with similar reductions (maybe 5 turrets instead of 7, and/or only 4 or 5 fighter bays, but with enough weapon/outfit space for two of the pentapulser turrets [which you also otherwise can't get yet] and 43200 shields and 12300 hull).

		"Value Detector"
		"Hyperdrive"

> # somewhat too high energy usage, not so fast

Author: one space between variants

> # somewhat too high energy usage, not so fast

Reviewer 3: Resolved.

ship "Sea Scorpion" "Sea Scorpion (Ionic)"
	outfits
		`"Biroo" Atomic Steering`
		`"Bondir" Atomic Thruster`
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Chameleon Anti-Missile"
		"Hai Corundum Regenerator" 3
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator"
		"Hai Valley Batteries"
		"Supercapacitor"
		"Outfits Expansion" 2
		"Quantum Keystone"
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Ion Cannon"
		"Ionic Blaster Prototype" 2
		"Ionic Turret Prototype"
		"Pulse Rifle" 36

# doesn't regen that well/weak to missiles
ship "Sea Scorpion" "Sea Scorpion (Shredder)"
	outfits
		`"Bondir" Atomic Steering`
		`"Biroo" Atomic Thruster`
		"Geode Reactor" 2
		"Bullfrog Anti-Missile"
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator"
		"Hai Gorge Batteries"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 5
		"Hai Octopus Jammer"
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Pulse Cannon" 2
		"Pulse Rifle" 36
		"Pulse Turret"
		"Quantum Keystone"
		"Tripulse Shredder" 2

ship "Sea Scorpion" "Sea Scorpion (Shields, Trackers)"
	outfits
		`"Biroo" Atomic Steering`
		`"Biroo" Atomic Thruster`
		"Geode Reactor"
		"Sand Cell"
		"Bullfrog Anti-Missile" 2
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 4
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hai Tracker" 280
		"Hai Tracker Pod" 4
		"Tracker Storage Pod" 2
		Hyperdrive
		"Outfits Expansion" 2
		"Pulse Rifle" 30

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

		"Quantum Keystone"
		"Supercapacitor" 2

# vulnerability: ion
ship "Shield Beetle" "Shield Beetle (Sunbeam)"
	outfits
		`"Bondir" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Sand Cell" 2
		"Hai Octopus Jammer" 3
		"Cargo Expansion"
		"Quantum Keystone"
		"Bullfrog Anti-Missile" 4
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator"
		"Hai Valley Batteries"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 3
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Pulse Rifle" 90
		"Sunbeam" 8

# slow, waste ammo
ship "Shield Beetle" "Shield Beetle (Thunderhead)"
	outfits
		`"Biroo" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bondir" Atomic Steering`
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 2
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 5
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Outfit Scanner" 4
		"Pulse Rifle" 80
		"Pulse Turret" 2
		"Thunderhead Launcher" 8
		"Thunderhead Missile" 160

# He Yi's Beetle (has flamethrower variant defined in the side missions, provided you sell flamers)
# also has an ion variant with a nullifier you will bring him, for part 2
ship "Stag Beetle"
	sprite "ship/hai stag beetle"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/hai stag beetle"
	attributes
		category "Heavy Warship"
		"cost" 30400000
		"shields" 39000
		"hull" 11000
		"required crew" 70
		"bunks" 78

> 		"mass" 720
> 		"drag" 9.1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"mass" 2040
		"drag" 16.8
```

		"cloak" .01
		"cloaking energy" 5
		"cloaking fuel" .5
		"cloaking heat" 5

> 		"heat dissipation" .45

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"heat dissipation" .25
```

		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Hyperdrive"

> # low dps but huge ion dmg, use missiles

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

# low dps but huge ion dmg, use missiles
```

ship "Shield Beetle" "Shield Beetle (Ion-ic?)"
	outfits
		`"Bondir" Atomic Steering`
		`"Bondir" Atomic Thruster`
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Geode Reactor"
		"Hai Corundum Regenerator" 2
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 3
		"Hai Octopus Jammer" 2
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 2
		"Hai Zephyr Cooling" 2
		Hyperdrive
		"Ion Cannon" 6
		"Ionic Blaster Prototype" 2
		"Outfits Expansion" 6
		"Pulse Rifle" 55

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

# heat vulnerability (and low turning, but high speed)
ship "Shield Beetle" "Shield Beetle (Ionic)"
	outfits
		`"Biroo" Atomic Steering`
		`"Bufaer" Atomic Thruster`
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Geode Reactor"
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 2
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 2
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Ion Cannon" 2
		"Ionic Blaster Prototype" 4
		"Ionic Turret Prototype" 2
		"Pulse Cannon" 2
		"Pulse Rifle" 95
		"Hai Octopus Jammer"
		"Value Detector"
		"Quantum Keystone"
		"Supercapacitor" 2

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

# vulnerability: ion
ship "Shield Beetle" "Shield Beetle (Sunbeam)"
	outfits
		`"Bondir" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Sand Cell" 2
		"Hai Octopus Jammer" 3
		"Cargo Expansion"
		"Quantum Keystone"
		"Bullfrog Anti-Missile" 4
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator"
		"Hai Valley Batteries"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 3
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Pulse Rifle" 90
		"Sunbeam" 8

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

# slow, waste ammo
ship "Shield Beetle" "Shield Beetle (Thunderhead)"
	outfits
		`"Biroo" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bondir" Atomic Steering`
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 2
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 5
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Outfit Scanner" 4
		"Pulse Rifle" 80

> 		"Pulse Turret" 2

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Because of Thunderhead Storage

Reviewer 3: This can be resolved (see above convo for why)

		"Thunderhead Launcher" 8

> 		"Thunderhead Missile" 160

Reviewer 3: What about Thunderhead Storage?
```suggestion
		"Thunderhead Storage Array" 8
		"Thunderhead Missile" 160
```

Author: the idea is you can waste its ammo without too much difficulty, and I don't think there's space left for that

Author: but then it takes ages to deplete the ammo, and this is already one of the strongest variants, with the ammo being limited

Reviewer 3: Okay. In real life, though, I would probably have more ammo. But so that it’s not impossible to fight, we can leave it the way it is. 
Resolved.

Author: I'd get more ammo too yeah but the wanderers arent exactly donating it, they give it willingly ~but its difficult to catch them when they explode on you~

Reviewer 3: Totally true

Author: also I tried not to spam too many alien weapons on the same ships except if its an actual warlord ship

Reviewer 3: Yes. This can be resolved.

		"Small Biochemical Cell"
		"Supercapacitor"
		
		"Thermal Repeater Rifle" 20
		"Pulse Rifle" 47
		"Dual Pulse Pistols" 10
		"Unfettered License"
	engine -45 123
	engine 45 123
	gun 0 -7 "Korath Detainer"
	gun -22 -102 "Sunbeam"
	gun 22 -102 "Sunbeam"
	gun -34 -68 "Fire-Lance"
	gun 34 -68 "Fire-Lance"
	gun -49 -38 "Plasma Cannon"
	gun 49 -38 "Plasma Cannon"
	gun -61 -14
	gun 61 -14
	turret -51 21.5
	turret 51 21.5
	turret -56.5 75
	turret 56.5 75
	turret 0 85.5 "Grab-Strike Turret"
	leak "leak" 35 45
	leak "flame" 60 95
	leak "big leak" 50 45
	explode "tiny explosion" 65
	explode "small explosion" 53
	explode "medium explosion" 56
	explode "large explosion" 55
	explode "huge explosion" 25
	"final explode" "final explosion large"
	description "At the core of this vessel are the ancient remains of a Korath raider that, despite making good use of a cloaking device, harassed the Unfettered one too many times. Although it does suffer from higher mass than a normal shield beetle, it also enjoys a more resilient hull and shield matrix."
	description "The owner of this ship is the servant of Tejolis; they are the incarnation of strategical might on the battlefield."

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

ship "Stag Beetle" "Stag Beetle (Flamer)"
	outfits
		"Sunbeam" 4
		"Flamethrower" 2
		"Korath Detainer"
		"Grab-Strike Turret"
		"Banisher Grav-Turret"
		"Bullfrog Anti-Missile" 3
		
		"Liquid Sodium Cooler"
		"Systems Core (Large)" 2
		"Outfits Expansion" 4
		"Wanderer Ramscoop"
		"Jump Drive"
		
		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Afterburner (Comet Class)"
		"Thruster (Lunar Class)"
		
		"Double Plasma Core"
		"Large Biochemical Cell"
		
		"Thermal Repeater Rifle" 20
		"Pulse Rifle" 47
		"Dual Pulse Pistols" 10
		"Unfettered License"
	gun 0 -7 "Korath Detainer"
	gun -22 -102 "Sunbeam"
	gun 22 -102 "Sunbeam"
	gun -34 -68 "Sunbeam"
	gun 34 -68 "Sunbeam"
	gun -49 -38
	gun 49 -38
	gun -61 -14 "Flamethrower"
	gun 61 -14 "Flamethrower"
	turret -51 21.5 "Grab-Strike Turret"
	turret 51 21.5
	turret -56.5 75 "Banisher Grav-Turret"
	turret 56.5 75
	turret 0 85.5

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
